.TH CUBELIT 1 "2026-04-28" "Cubelit 0.1.9" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cubelit \- manage Cubelit game servers from the terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cubelit
.RI [ options ]
.I command
.RI [ args... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Cubelit CLI uses the same SQLite database and Docker daemon as the desktop application.
Server identifiers can be a full UUID, an unambiguous server name, or a unique prefix of at least four characters of a UUID.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-recipes\-dir " " \fIDIR\fR
Use this directory for recipe JSON files instead of the default. When set, embedded recipes are not seeded.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CUBELIT_DATA_DIR
Override the application data directory (database and desktop-aligned paths). When unset: on Linux, \fI$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/cubelit\fR (typically \fI~/.config/cubelit\fR); on Windows and macOS, \fI~/Library/Application Support/cubelit\fR or the platform data-dir equivalent under \fIcubelit\fR.
.TP
.B CUBELIT_RECIPES_DIR
Override the recipes directory (same effect as \fB\-\-recipes\-dir\fR).
.TP
.B RUST_LOG
Standard tracing filter (default roughly \fIwarn,cubelit_core=info\fR).
.SH COMMANDS
.SS cubelit server list
List all servers (table: short ID, game, name, status, created).
.SS cubelit server install \fIRECIPE\fR \-\-name \fINAME\fR [\-\-port \fIPORT\fR]
Create and start a server from \fIRECIPE\fR (e.g. \fIminecraft-java\fR). With \fB\-\-port\fR, overrides the host port for the recipe\(cqs first published port. Prints the new server UUID on stdout; progress on stderr.
.SS cubelit server start \fIID\fR
Start a stopped server.
.SS cubelit server stop \fIID\fR
Stop a running server.
.SS cubelit server restart \fIID\fR
Restart a server.
.SS cubelit server status \fIID\fR
Show detailed status after syncing with Docker.
.SS cubelit server remove \fIID\fR [\-\-keep\-data] [\-\-yes]
Remove a server. Prompts unless \fB\-y\fR/\fB\-\-yes\fR. With \fB\-\-keep\-data\fR, container is removed but data directory is kept.
.SS cubelit logs \fIID\fR [\-\-tail \fIN\fR]
Follow container stdout/stderr (default tail \fB100\fR lines). Press Ctrl+C to stop.
.SS cubelit agent start
Stub: prints that the agent is not yet implemented (v0.3.0).
.SH FILES
Default database: \fICUBELIT_DATA_DIR\fR/\fBcubelit.db\fR (WAL mode).
.br
Default recipes (when not overridden): seeded under the XDG data directory, e.g. \fI~/.local/share/cubelit/recipes\fR on Linux.
.SH "INSTALLING THE MAN PAGE"
.B cargo install
does not install manual pages. To use \fBman cubelit\fR, copy this file to your man path, for example:
.PP
.nf
sudo install -Dm644 crates/cli/man/cubelit.1 /usr/local/share/man/man1/cubelit.1
sudo mandb
.fi
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid command line (clap).
.TP
.B 4
Validation error.
.TP
.B 5
Not found.
.TP
.B 6
Docker error.
.TP
.B 7
Database or migration error.
.TP
.B 8
I/O error.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List servers:
.B cubelit server list
.TP
Create a Java Minecraft server named \fIlan\fR:
.B cubelit server install minecraft-java \-\-name lan
.TP
Follow logs (50 lines then stream):
.B cubelit logs lan \-\-tail 50
